In the previous video we got the up running on Android versions earlier than marshmallow which is IPR
23 with 23.
Google changed the way that permissions work and we looked at that briefly in the top 10 Danila to wrap
so I've got to run the app again but this time of light of the API 27 emulator up and really Vidia intersection
and of course the one that Tabitha also wanted some contact details into.
So this time when I go on the app
the EP starts as per normal but when I click on the fighting action button we actually get an error
here.
Content Provider example has stopped and to come and have a look at our look at
say that time quite an exceptional just Cabarkapa and we can see it here the error permission denial
basically goes on to say the permission to know I was for being provided come to the Android or provide
stock contacts to contacts provided to you.
The bottom line here is with IP 23 and above it's not enough to just request the permissions we need
in the manifests.
We also need to write some code to request the permissions from the user when the app runs.
So let's check the google documentation he says a guard which is pretty useful about permissions and
draw commissions and we're going to posting the link.
It turns out this documentation has been updated since we looked at the top 10 app and the early now
redirects to he's going to stop with his permissions either view at the top of the page but to have
a read through this card.
Once you finish the section to make sure you understand how everything works.
We already know that we have to specify the permission in the manifest regardless of the version of
Android.
And we've already done that step.
But we had it the user's permission tag in the Android manifesto next fall.
But another important thing to note is that in that first paragraph is that the sister bought grant
the permission automatically.
So that's what happened in a top 10 app because the Internet permission we needed is classed as a normal
permission.
So what that means is we didn't have to do anything else to be granted permission to access the Internet.
But accessing the user's contacts is classed as a dangerous permission.
So Android needs to ask the user to approve that permission.
Now we didn't really see that we run upon the lollipop emulator.
That's because the method that Android studio uses to install apps on the device bypasses the checks
that you say when you install that from the get go postal.
Now earlier in the course when nivel us paid debugging on our phones and you should have seen that all
pop up asking for confirmation that look something like this.
No not I said it does say that enabling spaded bagging can install apps on your device without notification.
The emulators have you a spades and turned on by default and that automatically accepts the commissions
that you'd normally have to accept when installing a new app.
So although we didn't see it when running out Epsom and George judaeo you'd normally have to accept
the permission that the app requested when you install it.
That's how it worked before marshmallow.
But when Google released marshmallow I changed the way the permissions work.
So let's get back to that web page though to see what this all means for marshmallow and above.
So you get a good description of the change by scrolling down to the requests prompts for dangerous
permissions section.
This section here.
So that confirms what we found in the top 10 app highly dangerous permissions require user agreement.
Now the next subsection there describes the differences from the user's perspective.
If the device is running Android 6 IP or Level 23 or higher use is grant permission to apps while the
app is running.
Not when they stole the app.
There's also an important comment there about the target SDK version.
The target is T.K. version has to be 23 or higher for this behavior.
If you target the lower version then you will have the early behavior regardless of the device that
it's running on.
The user will be prompted to grab access when they install the app.
It also states that you can't always rely on having a permission to use a make grouted but then deny
it again later.
And if you think about it that obviously has implications for us as developers because we do have to
Rotto apps so that they can handle the situation where a permission is no longer granted.
You know for some apps that may involve us disabling some functionality for example could be a fight
processing app that allows the user to share a modified photo with their contacts.
If the user revokes the app's permission to access their contacts then the app would be able to share
the photo.
So in that case we should display that option that all the app would still be able to perform its fire
type in Appalachian functions but would be unable to share the result there in a case of a simple contex
app.
If the user doesn't grant access to the contacts database that the tar app will become useless because
that's all it does.
So the next section is quite a bit more talks about install install requests but the mountains cloud.
But the other information that I was talking about related to and what six it is on that page that you
can see it talks more about not relying on always having the provision but scrolling down further that
we're talking about the install time requests Android for point 1.1 and below.
That's describing the behavior of earlier versions of Android and that also applies if your target is
Teekay version is 22 ALOA regardless of the version of Android that the device is running.
So in that case the permissions are requested when the app is installed.
The user can either Krout open missions or decide not to install the app.
It talks more about this.
I would have if the permissions are granted.
The only way to know any of these permissions is to uninstall the app so I can pick up the page now
to stand here to the end of the permission approval section.
There's a link there to the protection levels just letting him know that this the normal and dangerous
permissions and lets you check if you need to do more than just add an entry in the manifest for a specific
permission or permissions that you apps need to click on that and have a look.
But I'll leave that for now.
We'll get back to android.
Julia and let's look at the code we need to check for those permissions and then we'll consider what
to do if they not granted.
But what I'm going to do first is start by adding a constant and a variable that will be using shortly
to do that are going to close down the window to the top of the file so that constant attacks will still
be private.
Cost Val will cause one request.
A case and the school code and call grade school contacts and will assign the value of 1 to 1.
Are we using that variable shortly.
I'll also explain what it's for Rob when we come to using it but also in the class itself.
Let's add a variable and we go to court.
Granted it's not going to be private property.
It has to be read.
Granted ECOs.
Side deal or talk about that shortly.
Obviously in the case of the cost of a for it and you saw that made at the top level value using the
private Konst modifies.
All right so the first step now is to check to see if the app has already been granted the permission
it needs.
And we can do that by calling the chick self-publisher method so get me to add the code and inside a
couple of things about it.
So I want to put that card immediately by this.
The line is set to support action back whole.
That's when reval has read contact permission
almost equal to context impact.
Thought I was going to check.
So permission to print this is going to be this comma be manifest at this point.
It's important to choose the Android manuf has each one down here and not the Java one so manifest got
permission.
Don't read all contact's what I'm going to do is just put that on the next line should I need it read
the.
Just to make sure there's enough space on the screen to say that we can see that.
So I would check to see whether you've got that permission.
I'm just going to do a log entry here and talk to a parentheses Tecoma.
Double quites on Create a colon check.
So permission
returned Dala has made contact permission.
Now because the new security model was introduced in April 23 and we're targeting Android versions way
back to IPY 17 we have to use the Wii for our support library to get access to the check self promotion
method.
Now there is this chick self-published method in the framework but that would only work for marshmallow
and above.
And both methods return the same result but the context compare method which we selected first checked
to see if it's running on Android Prato IP or 23 if it is it just a little success.
And that's of course because the new security model doesn't apply before April 23.
Now remember that we find the permissions we needed in the manifest.
So therefore we can use the constants to find in the medico's class to specify which permission we're
checking.
Here it's the read a school contacts permission having to manifest not permission don't read in the
school context.
Every time is a bit of a mouthful.
So we can report the constants from Android manifest to permission instead and which Judaea at the import
for us.
So first note that entrada manifest has been imported to give us access to the manifests not permission
don't read on the school context field.
Some have a look in the import section you can see here Android that manifests nutcase's at literally
the first entry of the import section of the of the source code the ordering of course isn't important.
So it might be a it may well be appearing lower down for you.
So if a guy back to remove the manifesto permission qualify from the read context field.
And despite that redoes called contex
what I can do is just delete that if needed you can see the evidence to there but it has actually other
than new ones.
I was going to delete the old one.
But what it should do it then as you can see that at the Android Menippus don't permission don't read
Amsco contex.
So therefore we can now get away with just putting rate Amsco context here.
Let me just take this opportunity to check my preferences he led them to preferences going into auditor
general what are we import and what had unambiguous inputs on the fly and optimizing ports on the fly
which is what that uses.
So I'm not sure why that either.
Right.
Grey entry appeared and appeared to sit there for a while but it should be automatic and remove that
automatically from me.
Anyway at this point we've actually succeeded now.
We've got a them making it a lot easier to read now just reading in school context rather than the qualified
that it had previously.
So at this point I'm looking at this important law in.
That's the equivalent of what's called a static important job.
Now if you're not familiar with the static imports in Java that's just a way to import the static members
of a class.
These are usually constants that sites have to fully qualify them.
Karttunen doesn't have the static keyword but importing the fully qualified value lock.
This is the Cartland equivalent in putting like this can be useful but use it sparingly if you either
do it.
You can make it hard hard to understand and debug.
They're just saying let me have a look at the code committed here again.
From 27 onwards if you look at that code from 127 non-Buddhists now not immediately obvious where Read
it was called contact's is coming from and had also imported the contacts contract Constance would have
a lot of constants coming from different classes without being qualified.
And that can make it hard to see what's going on and where all these constants are coming from.
So I would recommend not using this type of import for more than one class at a time.
All right so back to Lloyd 27.
So we've passed the context this here is the first parameter.
And we also passed a constant representing put the permission we're interested in to the check self
promotion method.
Now we'll get back an int result.
So let's check the documentation to see what the return value is.
So I'm going to click on the check cost self promotion method and bring up the documentation
and you can say that these return values are fairly straightforward.
We get one of the two constants to Materne either permission was granted if we already have the permission
or permission denied.
If we don't know on Android versions before Marcheline we should always get permission granted as luggers
we specify the permission in the manifest our must meet the one above the permission would have been
granted when the app was installed.
And that means that the first time we run this app will get permission on the school denied it will
have to request the permission from the user.
This is where things get a bit interesting and you know it would be very straightforward except that
users have an option to deny a permission and you can tick a box that they won't get asked again.
I'm going to have a look at how that works and how to deal with it in the next video.